LOS ANGELES -- Fans got their say Wednesday at the 39th annual People's Choice Awards, as their favorites from film, TV and music were honored at the Nokia Theatre L.A. Live.Kaley Cuoco of CBS' The Big Bang Theory, a comedic TV actress nominee, returned to host the event, which presents awards based on online fan voting. More than 475 million votes were cast this year, a record-breaking number. A big favorite was The Hunger Games, which took prizes for movie, action movie, movie franchise and on-screen chemistry. One of its stars, Jennifer Lawrence, won for favorite movie actress and favorite face of heroism."In many ways, this is more pressure," said Glee's Chris Colfer,  favorite comedic TV actor. "These are the people  who keep you employed." And Colfer said he wants to keep his fans happy: "I don't want to disappoint anyone.""The significance is the fans get to decide. With social media nowadays, there's all different opportunities to interact with the fans," said Arrow's Stephen Amell on the red carpet. "If you're on a show people support, it's your responsibility to interact with them and do as much as possible."Sandra Bullock picked up an award for her work on behalf of Warren Easton High School in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.Christina Aguilera, Jason Aldean and Alicia Keys performed during the two-hour CBS broadcast. Dozens of stars attended, including comedic movie actress winner Jennifer Aniston, favorite network TV comedy The Big Bang Theory's Johnny Galecki, White Collar star Matt Bomer and Taylor Swift ."It's cool to be representing country music here," said Aldean. When it comes to his own favorites, Aldean says, Castle, which won favorite TV crime drama, gets his vote.On the red carpet, Two and a Half Men producer Chuck Lorre said actor Angus T. Jones, who apologized after publicly bashing the show, will return to the set when production starts next week.Each of the nearly 50 nomination categories is preceded by "favorite," rather than "best" or "outstanding," as with many other awards shows. The honors also feature non-traditional awards categories, such as "Favorite Movie Superhero" and "Favorite TV Fan Following."