WASHINGTON —  President Obama called for "a better politics" in his last State of the Union address, saying all the other challenges the country faces can only be overcome if Americans "can have rational, constructive debates."In a speech peppered with question marks, Obama challenged the American people to focus on "four big questions" about the economy, technology, security and democracy."Will we respond to the changes of our time with fear, turning inward as a nation, and turning against each other as a people?  Or will we face the future with confidence in who we are, what we stand for, and the incredible things we can do together?" he said.Obama's election-year address had the air of a valedictory farewell, defending the progress made over the last seven years and setting out an agenda that will likely remain unfinished long after his presidency ends: turning back the effects of climate change, launching a "moonshot" to cure cancer, and cultivating a grassroots movement to demand changes in the political system."A better politics doesn’t mean we have to agree on everything," he said. "But democracy does require basic bonds of trust between its citizens.”Addressing the three branches of government, diplomatic corps and invited guests in the House chamber, Obama also made a not-so-veiled reference to the ideology of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, whose campaign to "make America great again" has tapped a vein of discontent at the Obama legacy.Obama said America has seen the likes of Trump before, as the country has gone through waves of immigration and periods of economic, social and political change."Each time, there have been those who told us to fear the future; who claimed we could slam the brakes on change, promising to restore past glory if we just got some group or idea that was threatening America under control," Obama said. "And each time, we overcame those fears."Quoting President Lincoln's 1862 State of the Union , Obama said America should reject the “dogmas of the quiet past.”He also defended his economic record against attacks from the right: "Anyone claiming that America’s economy is in decline is peddling fiction."On foreign policy, Obama rejected the notion that "our enemies getting stronger and America  getting weaker." He said building up the Islamic State as an existential threat only plays into the hands of the terrorist group."As we focus on destroying ISIL, over-the-top claims that this is World War III just play into their hands," Obama said. "Masses of fighters on the back of pickup trucks and twisted souls plotting in apartments or garages pose an enormous danger to civilians and must be stopped. But they do not threaten our national existence. That’s the story ISIL wants to tell; that’s the kind of propaganda they use to recruit."The answer, Obama said, "needs to be more than tough talk or calls to carpet bomb civilians" — a reference to GOP presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz's promise to "make sand glow in the dark.""That may work as a TV sound bite, but it doesn’t pass muster on the world stage," Obama said.Breaking with tradition, the speech was intentionally short on specific legislative proposals or executive actions. There was just one sentence on gun violence, one on immigration, and one on the minimum wage.He said he hoped to work with Congress on criminal justice reform and helping people battling drug abuse. He renewed proposals to shut down the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, raise the minimum wage, and provide free community college.And he called for a "moonshot" to cure cancer, and put Vice President Biden — whose son died of brain cancer last year — "in charge of Mission Control."But the major themes of the speech were well above the policy prescriptions that usually characterize State of the Union addresses."We live in a time of extraordinary change – change that’s reshaping the way we live, the way we work, our planet and our place in the world," Obama said. "It’s change that promises amazing medical breakthroughs, but also economic disruptions that strain working families. It promises education for girls in the most remote villages, but also connects terrorists plotting an ocean away. It’s change that can broaden opportunity, or widen inequality. And whether we like it or not, the pace of this change will only accelerate."As White House Communications Director Jen Psaki told reporters, "This is not a speech for which I would expect a 25-page fact sheet."Instead, Obama framed his speech around what he called "four big questions" — a faint echo of the most famous State of the Union addresses in history, in which President Franklin Roosevelt delivered what came to be known as the "Four Freedoms" speech in 1941. Those questions:► "How do we give everyone a fair shot at opportunity and security in this new economy?" Obama acknowledged that economic changes have squeezed workers, and pledged to work with House Speaker Paul Ryan on ways to alleviate poverty.► "How do we make technology work for us, and not against us – especially when it comes to solving urgent challenges like climate change?" Obama said innovation is in the nation's DNA, and called for technological solutions to curing cancer, slowing climate change and generating clean energy.► "How do we keep America safe and lead the world without becoming its policeman?" Obama asked Congress for a resolution authorizing military force against the Islamic State, but said the United States was threatened "less by evil empires, and more by failing states." He predicted that future extremist groups would emerge from those failed states around the world. "We also can’t try to take over and rebuild every country that falls into crisis," he said. "That’s a recipe for quagmire."Obama called on Congress to lift the embargo on Cuba. "The Cold War is over."► "How can we make our politics reflect what’s best in us, and not what’s worst?" Obama called for an end to Gerrymandering of election districts, a limit to the influence of big money in politics, and restrictions on voting rights."Changes in our political process – in not just who gets elected but how they get elected – that will only happen when the American people demand it," he said. "What I’m asking for is hard. It’s easier to be cynical; to accept that change isn’t possible, and politics is hopeless, and to believe that our voices and actions don’t matter."But in an unusual admission, Obama also accepted part of the blame for the political dysfunction he condemned."It’s one of the few regrets of my presidency – that the rancor and suspicion between the parties has gotten worse instead of better.  There’s no doubt a president with the gifts of Lincoln or Roosevelt might have better bridged the divide, and I guarantee I’ll keep trying to be better so long as I hold this office," he said.More coverage of SOTU 2016: