NBA player Greg Oden was arrested in Lawrence, Ind. this morning, accused of punching his ex-girlfriend.The incident happened around 3:30 a.m. in the 7200 block of Maple Bluff Place, according to a Lawrence Police Department report.Officers arrived at the home to find the victim crying and lying across a bed holding her face, police said. A woman described as the victim's best friend first told officers what happened, police said."He punched her in the face," the witness said, according to the report.The victim initially was "uncooperative," police said.The victim's best friend, police said, told the woman, "There isn't that much love in the world. You need to tell that he punched you in the face."Police "observed blood, swelling to the nose, lacerations to the forehead and nose area of the victim's face," according to the report. They also "observed blood on the sofa and floor in the sitting area.  observed  on the living room carpet  dirt from a flower pot that was knocked over."The house belongs to Oden's mother.Oden, 26, was "calm, apologetic and cooperative" when officers spoke with him, police said."I was wrong, and I know what has to happen," Oden told police, according to the report.PHOTOS: Greg Oden through the yearsOden told police he dated the victim for approximately two years but broke up approximately two months ago, according to the report.His ex-girlfriend is identified in the police report as a 24-year-old woman. Her name was redacted in the copy of the report provided to media.The victim's best friend, whose name also was redacted, is a 25-year-old woman from Oregon, according to the police report.One of Oden's relatives at the home was awakened by an argument involving Oden and the woman, police said."The relative stated every time the two visit and go out, there is an argument to follow," the report states.A Marion County Jail van drove Oden to the arrestee processing center, where his initial hearing will occur sometime today.He faces a preliminary charge of battery.At today's hearing, the Marion County prosecutor plans to seek a 72-hour continuance while deciding whether to file any charges, said Peg McLeish, a prosecutor's spokeswoman.Oden likely will learn a bond amount at today's hearing.After one year of college, Oden entered the NBA Draft and was the No. 1 overall selection by Portland, one pick ahead of NBA superstar Kevin Durant. Oden missed his entire rookie season following microfracture surgery on his right knee as missed time would soon become the theme of Oden's pro career. He managed to play 82 games over two years with the Blazers before missing three entire seasons to ongoing knee ailments .Oden made a comeback last season, signing a free agent deal with the Miami Heat. The reserve big man played just 23 times for the Heat though he started six games.In three total seasons, Oden averaged 8.0 points and 6.2 rebounds in his career.PHOTOS: Sports figures' jail mug shots