SportsNFL Draft: Why Jameis Winston, Marcus Mariota going No. 1 and 2 should terrify their new teamsBy Adam KilgoreIn the past 42 NFL drafts, quarterbacks have been selected with each of the first two picks just four times. The number is expected to creep to five Thursday night. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Tennessee Titans, two teams in need of quarterbacks, hold the first and second spots, and Jameis Winston and Marcus Mariota have sat at the top of mock drafts for months.Based on history, the arrangement should terrify Tampa Bay and Tennessee, or any team that trades up to scoop Winston or Mariota in the first two picks. In each instance of quarterbacks going first and second that can be judged completely, one pick became a franchise quarterback and the other turned into an abject washout. The most recent example – Andrew Luck and Robert Griffin III in 2012 – remains fluid but is heading in the same direction.Even scarier? The four cases provide no red flags or road map for which qualities to avoid and which to seek between Mariota and Winston. The Bucs and Titans are trying to ensure they will not pick the next Rick Mirer , Ryan Leaf , Tim Couch  or Griffin , hoping instead they land the quarterback who more closely resembles Drew Bledsoe, Peyton Manning, Donovan McNabb or Andrew Luck.The problem is, studying those twosomes will yield few clues. Couch possessed merely adequate arm strength — the same criticism that dogged Manning in comparison with Leaf. It’s easy now to point out that Griffin played in an extreme spread offense and Couch ran the run and shoot — but then McNabb led an offense heavily reliant on the option before he led the Eagles to five NFC title games.The pattern of one quarterback thriving and the other flaming out doesn’t mean only — or either — Winston or Mariota will succeed. But it does speak to the difficulty of choosing a quarterback at the top of the draft, and how often expected strengths or weaknesses fail to pan out.If you want to argue Mariota’s case as the better pick, you could point to Winston’s 28 interceptions in two seasons compared to Mariota’s 14 in three. But then, Bledsoe chucked 34 interceptions in fewer attempts than it took Mirer to throw 23 in their respective careers.College experience may be one crucial factor, an edge that would to go to Mariota. Couch and Leaf started for just two full seasons while McNabb and Manning were four-year starters. But again, a firm conclusion is elusive. Mirer started three years at Notre Dame compared to Bledsoe’s two at Washington State, and Griffin had a hair more experience than Luck when both entered the 2012 draft.Both Mariota and Winston share qualities of both the busts and the stars. Mariota’s leadership ability and poise puts him next to Manning and Luck. Winston’s arm strength and ability to make reads in a pro-style offense resembles Luck and Bledsoe. Like Couch and Griffin, Mariota played in an up-tempo spread offense reliant on quick, accurate passes. Like Leaf, Winston faces serious questions about his maturity and ability to handle off-field pressures of leading a franchise.The real dilemma for the Buccaneers and Titans is that quarterbacks cannot be slotted into predictable archetypes. Each one comes with his own unique package of strengths and weaknesses that will allow him to succeed or fail depending on the situation he lands in. If Griffin had landed in a more stable organization, could he stand next to Luck as a success? If Leaf hadn’t been thrust immediately into a starting role, could his arm strength have made him a star? If Couch had gotten to play in Andy Reid’s West Coast offense, could he have lasted?Winston and Mariota will remain attached to one another for years to come, just as Leaf’s name still echoes close to Manning’s, despite their disparate careers. One is a shining example; the other a cautionary tale. It’s impossible to say where Winston and Mariota will land after Thursday night.More on the NFL draftTeams most likely to trade their picksThe cautionary draft tale of Dion Jordan