The outrage prompted by Özgecan Aslan’s murder gave way to a rare conversation about sexual violence and what it means to be a woman in Turkey. It has been a long time coming. Tragically, Aslan had been prepared for the horror she faced, carrying pepper spray. Perhaps that is why her death hit so close to home for so many women in Turkey, most of whom have harassment stories of their own. Thousands of women took to social media using the hashtag #sendeanlat  to share their experiences. As editors of the online women’s magazine 5Harfliler, we know that first-hand accounts of sexual harassment are among the most shared topics on our website. From sexual harassment or violence on the street – or on a bus, at work or at home – to the feckless and hostile justice system faced by women who want to report crimes, women in Turkey increasingly feel the urge to speak up, be heard by each other, and say: “Something is very wrong”. In recent years, kadın cinayetleri, or killing of women, has been an everyday topic in the news. This is due to the efforts of feminist organisations who insist that women killed by their husbands, ex-husbands, boyfriends, brothers, fathers or neighbours are victims of systematic violence. Bianet, an independent news agency, has been monitoring incidents of male violence against women reported in Turkey’s national and local media since 2009. Women’s groups have organised demonstrations to push the government to establish an action plan against femicide. A digital monument keeps account of the women murdered since 2012. There is still no official record kept for kadın cinayetleri by the ministry of justice or the directory of security affairs, but most people in Turkey recognise that every day women are murdered by men. Yeşilçam, the Turkish film industry, which had its heyday from the 1950s to the 70s, helped to normalise violence against women. It perpetuated a deep-seated rape culture that television has done little to change since its emergence as a cultural force in the 1980s. In the past decade, there has been a proliferation of pop songs portraying violence as an innate part of romantic love, degrading women and caricaturising feminism. Media reports of violence are sensationalised, with detailed reports of rape accounts obtained from the police, photos of women curled up in shame, and commentary on what a victim wore, their alcohol intake, sexual activity or marital status. Aslan’s murder was different, however. She was not a victim of domestic violence, murdered as a “result” of a heated fight, or by a lover who “lost his temper” – all typical justifications used by the media. Aslan’s killer was a stranger who allegedly tried to rape her. That made it difficult to view her as anything other than innocent.   Since Aslan's death, an unprecedented number of women have advocated carrying knives to defend themselves   Mainstream media was quick to capitalise on the widespread anger at the murder, publishing countless stories. But there were no photo galleries of the victim and no sly suggestions as to why she might also have been at fault for what happened to her. More people than usual, both men and women, have been expressing their outrage at the way the media exploits crimes against women and feeds rape culture. Members of the public and government officials have called for the death penalty to be brought back. The justice system is inadequate and deeply flawed. For years, this has discouraged women from reporting crimes or standing up for their rights. However, in the past few years there have been more stories of women responding violently towards attacks by men. Last month, Istanbul Feminist Collective started keeping a record of the cases of women who injured or killed their attackers. Since Aslan’s death, an unprecedented number of women have advocated carrying knives to defend themselves. Most recently, a Kurdish group named Arin Mirxan Women’s Defence Task Force in Diyarbakir issued a warning against violent men and declared their right to violence as self-defence. Social media feeds have been filled with women’s stories of standing up to harassers and expressing a desire to be armed. But while there is more awareness of violence against women, state-sponsored conservatism is on the rise. In a speech last week, President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan scolded feminists who disagreed with his statement that men have a religious obligation to act as custodians of women and must protect them. He did not appreciate the reminder that women are in no one’s custody and are entitled to personal safety and legal protection, just like any citizen of Turkey. An urgent change is required in the legal system, as well as in media coverage and the mindset of politicians and society at large. Women are well aware of this need, and what Aslan’s murder has demonstrated clearly is that they are no longer hesitant to express their views. Let’s hope it translates into positive action.  Duygu Aytac, Hazal Halavut, Melis Kurultay, Nigar Hacizade and Suna Kafadar work for 5Harfliler