Jonny Wilkinson is set to risk a premature end to his England career by signing a new contract with Toulon which will keep him in the south of France until at least 2012. The club's director of rugby, Philippe Saint-André, says his fly-half is close to agreeing a one-year deal with a further one-year option, a decision which casts doubt over whether he will represent his country again beyond next autumn's World Cup. Wilkinson is fully aware of the Rugby Football Union's determination to ensure all its elite players are based in the Aviva Premiership from the end of next year as part of its strategy to ensure England are strong contenders for the 2015 World Cup on home soil. The 31-year-old is so relishing Mediterranean life, however, that he wants to stay put, a choice which could undermine the RFU's strict new stance on the selection of foreign-based players. While Wilkinson is no longer an automatic Test starter, his performance against London Irish in Reading on Sunday was as assured as anything he has produced on English soil for some time. The RFU's directive is well-intentioned but in Wilkinson's case a spell abroad has visibly rejuvenated him physically and mentally. "I am happy where I am, it fits the bill for me, I am enjoying the experience and I'm learning a hell of a lot," said Wilkinson. "I owe a lot to these guys. I can understand where the RFU is coming from and what they're saying but my main aim is to keep getting better. I want to carry on doing that now. A game like Sunday's shows why I am so happy where I am." Asked whether, ideally, he would like to remain in France and continue to represent England he replied: "Yeah, but it's something I don't want to get involved in. There are other players in the same situation." Saint-André, not surprisingly, is equally keen for Wilkinson to remain in the Top 14, suggesting the deal is all but finalised: "Jonny is very happy with us. I think he will sign for one more year plus a one-year option. It is nearly done. Maybe Jonny will play two years with us and if he is still fit and happy he will then go back to England to play in the next World Cup in England in 2015. "I am not sure if Jonny will want to play in the next World Cup in five years' time because he will be 36. But it may be like Sonny Bill Williams. He was very happy with Toulon but he had the opportunity to play for the All Blacks and he wanted to have a go to see if he could play in a World Cup in his own country." It leaves England with a tricky problem. Only last month the RFU's director of elite rugby, Rob Andrew, made it clear that he and Martin Johnson wanted all their top players at home after the World Cup in New Zealand next year. For the policy to be effective, they can hardly have one rule for Wilkinson and another for everyone else. On the other hand, the world's most famous goal-kicker, who has scored 1,111 points in 80 Tests for England, remains a mightily effective weapon. He could prove a significant presence in an increasingly youthful squad. The financial benefits of signing for a leading French club, though, are so hefty that the RFU feels it has no option but to try and prevent an exodus. "I can see why they are doing this," said Saint-André. "The next World Cup is in England and they want to be in control of the players. The English players who are 29 or 30 and wanting a new experience will still come to France but those who are 24 or 25 will stay in England. I don't have any problem with this. I completely understand the view of the RFU and I wouldn't be surprised if the French do the same in one or two years' time." Nevertheless, the economic lure of the Top 14, which benefits from a more generous salary cap, shows little sign of diminishing. "At the moment in France the French League is more important than the French team," said Saint-André. "There are more people watching and more interest in the newspapers. It looks a  little bit like the English Premier League in football."