This Sunday's Observer Food Monthly features a countdown of the 50 best cookbooks ever, and every day this week we're bringing you an extract from one of them. 13. The Complete RobuchonJoël RobuchonGrub St, 2008 An Escoffier for the 21st century. It's all here, every quirky piece of orthodox French methodology, mixed in with preparations that are distinctly Robuchon.  Those buttery mashed potatoes, Madeleines that are the best in France, and a Provençal beef stew made with cheeks poked with lardons and cooked atop a half-pound of pork rind that may be the only the meaty stew that never dries out.  Bill Buford Madeleines Makes 24Preparation: 20 minutes plus 1 hour in the refrigeratorCooking: 12-15 minutes If you are baking for someone with a nut allergy, the almond flour in this recipe  can be replaced with regular flour. If you want to use almond flour but have only whole almonds on hand, try grinding them yourself in a food processor or coffee grinder, taking care to stop before they turn into a creamy butter. 200g butter plus softened butter for greasing the mould80g sifted flour plus a little extra for dusting the greased mould200g icing sugar, sifted80g very fine almond flour6 large egg whites 1 tablespoon honey, preferably a strong variety such as chestnut Equipment: sheet madeleine mould or moulds to hold 28 x 8 cm madeleines Use a pastry brush to coat the hollows of the madeleine mould with softened butter. Sprinkle with flour, tap and shake the flour around to spread evenly, and pat out any excess. Melt the butter in a saucepan and then pour it into a bowl to cool. Sift together the flour and icing sugar. Stir in the almond flour with a whisk. Beat the egg whites just until they become fluid. Then whisk in the flour-sugar mixture until intimately combined. Stir in the melted butter and honey, whisking until you have a homogeneous batter. Fill the madeleine mould: spoon batter into the hollows so that they are almost completely full to the top. Refrigerate for 1 hour to firm up before baking. 30 minutes in advance, preheat the oven to 400F/200C/gas 6. After an hour's refrigerated rest, bake for 12-15 minutes, until the madeleines are lightly golden and firm to the touch but still somewhat tender. Remove the mould from the oven and rap them on a flat surface to detach the little cakes from the mould. Then tip them onto a cooling rack; if necessary, use a knife to help reluctant madeleines detach. Serve warm or at room temperature. When the madeleines have cooled completely, you can keep them in a sealed container for several days. Variations Pistachio madeleines  Replace the heavily scented honey with something milder, such as lavender, and replace the almond flour with unsalted pistachio flour. Just before filling the moulds, you can stir 1 teaspoon pistachio extract into the batter. Lemon madeleines  Just before filling the moulds, stir into the batter the grated zest of two organic lemons and 5 tablespoons of lemon juice. Incorporate evenly and completely. Chocolate madeleines  Replace the heavily scented honey with something milder, such as lavender. Just before filling the moulds, stir into the batter 150 g melted dark bittersweet chocolate. Incorporate evenly and completely. Chocolate hazelnut madeleines  Replace the heavily scented honey with something milder, such as lavender, and replace the almond flour with hazelnut flour. Just before filling the moulds, melt 200 g hazelnut-flavoured milk chocolate and stir it completely into the batter. Provençal beef stew  Serves 6Preparation: 30 minutes  plus 30 minutesCooking: 4 hours The marinade should be prepared at least 4 hours in advance, the day before if possible. At one time, this traditional beef stew would have simmered for hours in the corner of a Provençal hearth or stove. This version uses cubed beef for braising; the cheek is the best part for this purpose. In Provence they also make a daube from the Camargue bull, using the same proportions, and from lamb shoulder or neck chopped into 50g morsels. The recipe is very much the same, but with lamb one uses dry white wine instead of red, and lemon zest instead of orange, does not lard the meat, and does not use the pork rind or dried orange zest. Lamb daube spends less time in the oven: 3 hours should be enough. Like most stews, this daube improves with time and is better reheated or even cold. If you plan to serve it cold, you might add a chopped up veal foot to the pan when you add the stew meat, which will encourage a jelly-like consistency. 20 stems flat leaf parsley, leaves only, finely chopped7 cloves garlic, one peeled and degermed and finely chopped, the other 6 peeled100g lardons1.5kg beef stew meat , cut into 5 cm cubes 1 bottle robust red wine 50ml cognac3 whole cloves9 tablespoons olive oil1 bouquet garni 2 teaspoons black peppercorns250g fresh pork rind800g new carrots, peeled and sliced into thin rounds 1 heart of celery, washed and sliced into thin rounds  thick)Grated nutmeg500g small tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and diced 200g small new onions, peeledZest of 1 organic orange, free of bitter white pith, chopped into 2 cm x 1 cm slivers100g black olives, niçoise if possible200ml beef broth, home made or from a bouillon cube500g flourSalt and pepper The night before, mix the finely chopped parsley and finely chopped garlic. Roll the lardons in this mixture. Use the tip of a knife to make an incision in each cube of stew meat and slip lardons into these little pockets. Put the stuffed cubes into a terrine or large bowl with the wine, cognac, cloves, and 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Add the bouquet garni, peppercorns, and the rest of the garlic. Mix, cover, and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours but preferably overnight, stirring 2 or 3 times. The next day, put the pork rind in a saucepan with 1 litre of water. Bring to a boil and let the water bubble for 2 minutes. Use a skimmer or slotted spoon to remove the pork to a colander and rinse it under cold water. Let it drain in the colander, then line the bottom of your stew pot with the blanched pork rind. . Drain the beef cubes in a colander set over a bowl; do not discard the marinade. Carefully pat the cubes dry with paper towels. Heat the remaining tablespoons of olive oil in a large pan over a high heat. When the oil is hot, add the stew meat and brown all over, about 5 minutes. Remove the meat to a dish with the skimmer. In the same pan, sauté the carrots and celery over a medium heat for 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Season with 2 teaspoons of salt and 1 teaspoon of pepper and stir in 2 pinches of grated nutmeg. Preheat the oven to 250F/120C/gas 1/2. Build the daube layer by layer in the pan lined with pork rind. First put down a layer of meat, then tomato, then carrots, celery, baby onions, orange zest, and olives. Pour the reserved marinade and beef broth over the whole thing; if the vegetables are not completely covered, top off with water. Taste the liquid and season if necessary, but be careful: the dish will cook for 4 hours, the salt will concentrate, and you will not be able to add water while the pan is sealed. Prepare the sealing pastry : combine the flour with 200 ml of water in a small bowl, mixing until it forms a dough. Roll it out with your hands into a long 'snake' of dough. Put the cover on the pan of daube and seal the lid to the pan by pressing the dough all around their seam and joining it at the ends. Bake for 4 hours. Remove the pan from the oven, remove the sealing pastry in front of your guests, and then take the pan back to the kitchen to degrease the surface of the broth. Remove the bouquet garni and, if you can find them, the whole cloves. Serve very hot. • These recipes are taken from The Complete Robuchon