UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon urged world leaders not to "balance budgets on the backs of the poor" by shirking the commitments they made 10 years ago to ending global poverty, as economic recession bites at home. At the opening of the UN summit on progress towards the eight millennium development goals  agreed in a spirit of idealism by G8 leaders in 2000, he made an impassioned address to politicians and other donors to finish the job. Progress had been made, he told more than 140 world leaders at the UN summit on the MDGs in New York, making reference to "new thinking and path-breaking public-private partnerships, dramatic increases in school enrolment, expanded access to clean water, better control of disease and the spread of technology – from mobile to green". But, he said in his address at the opening of the three-day summit , "the clock is ticking, with much more to do". He called on governments to live up to the vision, even in hard financial times. "Being true means supporting the vulnerable despite the economic crisis. We should not balance budgets on the backs of the poor. We must not draw back from official development assistance – a lifeline of billions, for billions," he said. Andrew Mitchell, the UK development secretary, told the assembly that Britain would abide by its pledge to increase aid to 0.7% of gross national income by 2013. But, he said, he wants results and better measurement of what the money delivers. He called on other governments to raise their game. "Britain is leading the way in helping the world's poorest people … The UN secretary general has praised Britain's 'visionary leadership' on this. Now is the time for other countries to step up and keep their promises too. We will push for that – and I will push for all aid to be more transparent and more accountable," he said. Speaking later, he added: "We want a proper agenda for action over each of the next five years, not a load of blah-blah and big sums of money being thrown about, although big sums of money are important. We want to see a focus on what we're going to achieve, what the results are going to be for those who are going to help." The UK government has said that it will review all its aid programmes to see what more they can deliver for women and small children, in line with Ban Ki-moon's call for the world to focus its efforts above all on maternal and child health, the goal least likely to be met but one which could have positive impacts on most of the rest.On Wednesday the UN secretary general will launch a new plan to cut the deaths of women in childbirth and pregnancy and save their babies, and is looking for new financial commitments from donors to make it a reality. French president Nicolas Sarkozy echoed Ban Ki-moon's call for governments to stick to their word. "We have no right to do less than what we have decided to do," he told the assembly. He promised France would boost its annual contribution to the Global Fund to fight Aids, TB and malaria, which has set a particular goal – championed by Sarkozy's wife Carla Bruni – to end the transmission of HIV from mothers to their babies. The French contribution of €300m  will rise by 20% over the next three years to €180m, he said. "If all contributing states were to follow our example, decisive progress would be made toward eliminating malaria, which kills a million children in Africa each year," said Sarkozy. "To put it bluntly, before the end of my speech, 30 children will have died of malaria on that continent," he added. "We can save them if we wish." Sarkozy called for the creation of a financial transaction tax, as a new way of funding the MDGs and was backed by Spain. "We can't let the current economic and financial crisis become a pretext to shirk our responsibilities in future to developing countries in terms of fighting poverty and hunger. It's clear that to meet the goals, traditional aid isn't enough … I want to express my support for the creation of a financial transactions tax," said Spain's prime minister José Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, head of the IMF, said the financial, food and fuel crises had lost the world years of progress and momentum had been derailed. "We must redouble our efforts in the face of this immense human suffering. We must strive for a speedy return to the pre-crisis path," he said. HIV/Aids protesters demand action Dozens of protesters gathered in midtown Manhattan and walked to the United Nations summit to demand action on Aids/HIV. Chanting and holding up banners, they called for increased funding from the Obama administration. "We are here to remind President Barack Obama he promised to save the lives of millions of people and so far he hasn't delivered," said Matthew Kavanagh, one of the protesters. The bigger push to fight Aids and to make treatment more widely available, is one of the eight millennium development goals set out by world leaders, that are being discussed during the summit in New York which runs until tomorrow. "We are actually very concerned that this administration is getting bad advice and is hiding behind the financial crisis as a way to not step forward and keep their commitments to millions of people, 33 million people, living with HIV around the planet," said Asia Russell, another protester. Another of the UN goals is to take steps to reduce maternal mortality during childbirth and Amnesty International on Monday activated a "maternal death clock" in Times Square. The digital clock counts one death every 90 seconds and is expected to tally nearly 1,000 deaths every day during the three-day MDG summit. "If we don't have a very strong focus on the poorest people on the planet, the women, the indigenous people, people who are excluded and left behind, we are going to find ourselves in the same situation in 2015. The averages look good but the people who need these goals the most, the women, the poorest people, are going to be left out," said Amnesty International chief Salil Shetty. The clock is meant to send a strong message to leaders about the price of poverty worldwide – highlighting the 981 women who die each day during childbirth because of inadequate medical care. The clock will run the course of the three-day event, where leaders are reviewing the progress they pledged in 2000 to reduce poverty, disease, ignorance and inequality, by 2015.