First home game of the season, optimism in the air, a potential upset on the cards. Why not throw caution to the wind? Where is the harm in letting your hair down and starting with two strikers against Manchester City? Tony Pulis has a reputation for uncompromising caution, but on Monday West Bromwich Albion were going to attack, their confidence buoyed by the memory of beating Chelsea 3-0 at The Hawthorns in May. It was not long before reality took hold. Reality was David Silva. There is little that teams of West Brom’s stature can do to stop City when Silva is in the mood and Yaya Touré ended the game as a contest with a 20-yard rocket to make it 2-0 after 24 minutes, but Pulis’s tactics hardly helped his players. West Brom were too open and Silva revelled in the freedom that they afforded him. Giving the little Spaniard time and space on a football pitch is like you or me telling Mike Tyson to take his best shot.   Related: Swedish referee Mohammed al-Hakim’s online honesty runs risk of backfiring   Then a strange thing happened. Pulis admitted that he got it wrong. There was no attempt to divert attention away from the 3-0 defeat by dreaming up a laughable conspiracy theory or criticising his team or having a go at City’s Manuel Pellegrini for telling him that baseball caps are so last year. A manager admitted that he made a mistake and, hard as it may be to believe, the world did not end. Even more amazingly West Brom managed not to respond to this admission of guilt by sacking Pulis. It was incredible. Adults were acting like adults and discovering it can be preferable to behaving like a child telling a tale about a terrifying homework-devouring dog with eyes like Satan and absolutely no regard at all for financial fair play rules. “I take responsibility for the way we set up,” Pulis said. “The fact we had Saido  and Rickie , who played really well together, pulled us away from what we really should do. I said to them afterwards I would take responsibility for that. “We needed to be a little bit more solid. David Silva was controlling the game and looked really dangerous and we never got to grips with that. City were the better team tonight and without trying to put any blame on anyone else I think, as a manager, I look at it and if I had my time again I’d probably do it differently. But that’s management. “The pivotal moment was the time I decided to play two up front and not the extra one in midfield and you go away from what you’ve always stuck by. I just had a feeling for those two tonight and wanted to be positive in the first home game, but I learned my lesson.” His honesty was refreshing. It is not the first time Pulis has held his hands up after a heavy defeat. When West Brom lost 4-1 at Arsenal in May, he shouldered the blame again, saying that his players had nothing left in the tank after an exhausting few weeks. “Maybe, looking back, I should have changed a couple of them because a few of them looked jaded,” he said. Managers can never succeed without the respect of the dressing room and perhaps there was a danger of Pulis introducing a few doubts into the minds of his players by talking about his flaws in public. The boss is not supposed to make mistakes or talk about them on live television. Yet the capacity for self-reflection and the ability to accept responsibility are important qualities in any environment. Sticking your fingers in your ears and pretending that you are always right limits self-improvement and it was astute management from Pulis. His players will stay with him. He did not just take a bullet for them, he aimed the gun at himself, and they will know that he is unlikely to leave them as exposed when they play City again. Even brilliant people make mistakes. Lionel Messi missed a crucial penalty for Barcelona in their Champions League semi-final against Chelsea in 2012. Roberto Baggio sent one into orbit in the 1994 World Cup final. Pep Guardiola tried to go toe-to-toe with Barcelona in May and was extremely lucky that Bayern Munich emerged unscathed from a chastening opening 20 minutes. If it happens to them, it can happen to the rest of us and there is no point pretending otherwise. Pulis was able to make his mea culpa because it came from a place of confidence and knowledge about himself. He knows he is a good manager. He knows even good managers have off nights and occasionally showing vulnerability does not have to be interpreted as a sign of weakness; quite the opposite, in fact. Managers are masters of deception when their teams disappoint. It tends to be referees who get it in the neck, as if one bad decision on their part is always the defining moment in a match that lasts 90 minutes, but not always. José Mourinho managed to obscure analysis of Chelsea’s performance in their 2-2 draw against Swansea City on Saturday by homing in on his medical staff. There was no doubt that it was a story but Mourinho’s intent was clear: he was making sure that the story of Chelsea’s struggle became slightly less important.   Related: Chelsea first-team doctor Eva Carneiro set for role change after criticism   We hear a lot about individual errors. Managers like to distance themselves from those. Individual errors can be made to seem out of their control. They are random, illogical, impossible to understand. Isn’t it curious that the winning team didn’t make any? Or, if they did, that they still found a way to win? When West Ham lost a 2-0 lead against Tottenham Hotspur in February, Sam Allardyce had a number of targets: Alex Song for giving away a silly penalty in the 95th minute, Harry Kane for going down too easily in the area, the officials for playing too much time, his players for not seeing the game through when they were in front. The turning point was when Allardyce handed control of midfield to Tottenham by replacing Mark Noble with Carlton Cole instead of Kevin Nolan. It is always hard to take a manager’s comments at face value. Sir Alex Ferguson famously veered away from criticising his players in public, realising they would not respond well to the criticism and he did not need to give the media an open goal. There was usually an excuse. The shirts were too grey or the pitch was too bobbly because Old Trafford had hosted a rugby union match a few months earlier. There is an element of self-preservation from managers who fear that the scrutiny on them is great enough without them turning the spotlight on themselves in the face of gentle interrogation, and they have to be careful not to push their players too far in the modern era. It is a tough balancing act and that is why so many post-match interviews veer between mind-numbing tedium and comical absurdity. Yet the positive reaction to Pulis’s comments shows that more of them could follow his lead and live to tell the tale. One moment of maturity should not stand out so much.