The Lake District The Lake District  is currently splashing out £6.9m to help you across Beatrix Potter country without mowing down Peter Rabbit's relatives. The programme includes new and improved cycle paths, e-bikes, electric cars, improved signage and a new dedicated bike bus, plus bike space on regular buses in the Central Lakes. You can take the new number 800 bike bus from Windermere rail station north to Whinlatter Forest for mountain bike trails , or to Thirlspot for family-friendly routes around Thirlmere . The bus runs from May to September  with daily buses from 16 July to 31 August. The charge for bikes is the normal single fare plus £1.50. Alternatively, hire one of Lakeland's new e-bikes, launched in February, from nearby Bowness for £15-£25 a day. Take the Windermere ferry for a battery-powered climb to Beatrix Potter's Hill Top , or explore the newly restored cycle path along the shore to High Wray and Hawkshead. Peak District    Monsal Dale viaduct, part of the Monsal Trail. Photograph: Don Mcphee   If you like your bike rides and rambles flat, the Monsal Trail  in the Peak District is an 8.5-mile scenic saunter along an old railway line between Bakewell and Blackwell Mill, part of 65 miles of traffic-free cycle routes in the Peaks. Ride and Ramble  gives 20 linear Peaks walks linked with public transport, while bus tickets get users discounts on local attractions, including two for one on the narrow gauge Peak Rail  and discounts to historic buildings, including Haddon Hall  . Loch Lomond     View to Ben Lomond. Photograph: Colin Paterson/Getty Images   Combine cycling with a cruise in Loch Lomond and the Trossachs. A 30-minute train from Glasgow takes you to Balloch, at the southernmost end of the loch, where you can hire bikes  and ride the largely traffic-free West Loch Lomond Cycle Path  nine miles to Luss, with its pretty stone cottages and views of Ben Lomond. Hop on a water bus to Balmaha on the eastern shore and rest up before cycling south via Drymen to Balloch along part of National Cycle Network Route 7, or head north for more challenging routes in the Trossachs . Alternatively, Explorer cruises  from Luss and Balmaha, running 31 March to 31 October, offer a relaxing way to take in the scenery . Exmoor    Testiing the new e-bikes on Exmoor   Cycling across Exmoor is no longer the preserve of the super keen or super fit – the national park's new electric bikes – e-bikes – make it quite possible to have a full day out on the moor and still have the energy left to enjoy a night out in a local pub in the evening . The scheme was launched in April, and you can pick one up from six points across Exmoor and head out into the wild . A fully charged battery will last about 20 miles, with around 20 charging points in local pubs and cafes, including the White Horse Inn, Exford, where you can also sample some local beer knowing you'll have some battery power to see you home. The Moor Rover minibus  picks up visitors and bikes, and can be booked all year round from anywhere on Exmoor and has a flat rate single fare of £6 for adults, £2 children – call 01643 709701 or email moorrover@aol.com to book at least 24 hours in advance.   Yorkshire Dales    On top of Malham Cove. Photograph: Alamy   For those with young families, the Malham Tarn shuttle bus  allows visitors to explore the glorious Dales without having to tramp up hillsides. It runs from Skipton  rail station to the popular village of Malham with the towering limestone cliff of Malham Cove, and up to England's highest lake, Malham Tarn, and some great walks . Week-long parking tickets, costing £14, are available in car parks across the Dales, so you can leave the car behind. Moors Rover tickets offer unlimited travel on Dales buses on Sundays and bank holidays . From Settle, guided walks  are organised around public transport by Friends of the Settle-Carlisle line and Dales bus ramblers  and . Or choose your own walk from the yorkshiredales.org.uk site. Brecon Beacons    Mountain biking above Talybont reservoir. Photograph: Brecon Beacons National Park Authority   The longstanding Beacons Buses arrive in Brecon town from Cardiff, Swansea, Carmarthen and Hereford by 11am on Sundays and bank holidays from 3 June to 30 September. From Brecon, catch the Geopark Circular bus  – one of many bus tours starting around 11am – which takes visitors on a circular route around Fforest Fawr Geopark , the western half of the Brecon Beacons, stopping at Pontneddfechan Waterfalls , Dan-yr-Ogof caves and Penderyn Distillery . Hop on and off, until the last return bus leaves the waterfalls at 4pm. A local company, Drover Holidays, provides all-inclusive trips on e-bikes in Brecon and Hay-on-Wye. Self-guided and weekend tours start from £215pp, including B&B accommodation, luggage transfer, bike hire and route maps. Or hire a bike  and stay in an eco-friendly home near Brecon  – B&B doubles from £60. Snowdonia     Ffestiniog Railway, Gwynedd. Photograph: Getty Images   For a vintage break, head to Porthmadog, Snowdonia , with its beautiful harbour. Pack cucumber sandwiches, tea and cake and take the heritage Ffestiniog and Welsh Highlands railways , with vintage carriages added in busier months. Travel to Blaenau Ffesteinog in the mountains and Caernarfon on the coast . For a more active break, the Snowdon Sherpa buses  carry people and bikes on circular routes around Snowdonia from Porthmadog eight times daily on weekdays, or four times on Sundays, and hourly from Caernarfon to Pen-y-Pass for the Snowdon ascent . Visit the central national parks website for more information about getting to each of the parks: nationalparks.gov.uk/gettingtonationalparks