Idon't want to sound like some harrumphing colonel, but what is happening to the great British biscuit? I didn't fight in two world wars  to see the mighty, wheaty digestive, the feisty gingernut and the gregarious garibaldi supplanted by cookies the size of hubcaps and decorated with effing Smarties. Are we meant to eat them, or drill a hole in them and hang them up? I blame the American coffee chains. They come over here, interfere with our milk and bamboozle us with transatlantic gibberish that makes us feel like scum for simply ordering "a cup of coffee".  And when we ask for a cup of tea, they ask, "Medium or large?" then charge us an extra 50p for pouring another half-pint of tepid water over a teabag in a paper cup. But it's when we want something to nibble with our cuppa that they really take the piss. It's not just those supersized decorated cookies, either. So-called granola bars are really packets of nasty cereal stuck together with glue. Enormous cartoon cupcakes attempt to disguise bland, greasy sponge beneath an avalanche of sugary icing. And don't get me started on whoopie pies. Give me a wholesome British bickie from a packet any day over these pumped-up, showboating, faux-bakery items. Our best-loved biscuits are quiet, restrained, delicious, designed for a few moments of private pleasure rather than for gluttonous excess. If I want a little extra, there's always the chocolate digestive or the rather racy Bourbon. These unassuming classics are low-maintenance, too, resting discreetly in the tin ready for a mid-morning cup of tea or after-school snack. I'm not saying there's no place for a more indulgent, treaty biscuit. I'm just saying most attempts to occupy that space in the commercial sector are a tragicomedy of style over content, and a huge disappointment when you stick them in your expectant gob. In short, a total rip-off. No, if you want to go beyond the biscuit tin classics, far better to bake a batch yourself. You'll be surprised how easy it is – easy enough to enlist the kids' help without fear of cookie cock-ups. And provided you use good ingredients – the best butter, the fruitiest jam, the freshest spices – you will make something truly delightful. Jam thumbprint biscuits Some of the easiest, prettiest biscuits of all. Makes about 24 biscuits. 225g unsalted butter at room temperature225g caster or vanilla sugarFinely grated zest from 1 medium-sized, unwaxed lemon½ tsp vanilla extract2 egg yolks2 tbsp milk280g plain flour, sifted with a good pinch of saltAbout 6 tbsp jam Heat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4. Line a couple of baking trays with baking parchment. Beat the butter and sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, then beat in the lemon zest and vanilla extract. Next beat in the egg yolks one at a time, then beat in the milk. Gently fold in half the flour, stir gently, then add the rest – don't overwork it or the biscuits will be tough. Gather the soft dough together gently with your hands until you have a smooth ball. Wrap in clingfilm, chill for 30 minutes, then roll into 2.5cm balls. Place these on the baking sheets about 2.5cm apart. Use your thumb to push a deep little well in the centre of each ball – this is quite a sticky dough, so dip your thumb in water first. Put a quarter of a tablespoon of jam in each indentation. Bake until firm to touch and golden on the bottom, about 15 minutes. Leave to cool on the tray for a few minutes, then transfer to wire racks and cool completely. Peanut butter chocolate sandwich biscuits Slightly salty peanut butter is a great foil for creamy chocolate ganache. Makes about 24 filled biscuits. For the biscuits240g plain flour2 tbsp cocoa powder½ tsp baking powder¼ tsp salt180g butter140g smooth peanut butter100g caster sugar100g light brown sugar1 egg1 tsp vanilla extractFor the filling100ml double cream200g dark chocolate30g butter, softened Sift the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder and salt into a bowl. In a separate bowl, beat the butter and peanut butter until smooth. Add the sugars and beat until light and fluffy. Add the egg and vanilla, beat until smooth, then stir in the flour until well combined. Pat into a disc, wrap in clingfilm and refrigerate for an hour or two to firm up, as this is quite a soft dough. Heat the oven to 170C/325F/gas mark 3. Line three or four baking sheets with parchment . Lightly dust a work surface with flour, divide the dough in two and roll each piece to about 4-5mm thick. Cut into circles with a 5cm plain biscuit cutter. Place on the baking sheets about 2cm apart, and bake for 15-17 minutes, until the edges are slightly darkened. Transfer to a rack to cool while you make the ganache. In a small pan, gently heat the cream until bubbles appear at the edges. Break the chocolate into small pieces and put into a bowl. Pour the hot cream over, stirring to blend, then add the butter a bit at a time, stirring until the mixture is smooth. Leave to thicken slightly, then pipe or spread the ganache on to half the biscuits, and sandwich together. Shrewsbury biscuits These light, lemony biscuits keep in a tin for up to a week. If you like, add 60g currants and omit the caraway seeds. Makes about 18 biscuits. 100g butter, softened, plus a little more for greasing150g caster sugar, plus a little more for sprinkling2 egg yolks, plus 1 egg white220g plain flour, sifted½ tsp caraway seedsFinely grated zest of 1 lemon Pinch of salt1-2 tbsp whole milk Heat the oven to 180C/350F/gas mark 4 and line two baking sheets with baking parchment. In a large bowl, cream the butter and sugar until pale and fluffy. Beat in the egg yolks one at a time. Fold in the flour, caraway, zest, salt and just enough milk to bring it together into a smooth dough – you may not need the milk at all, depending on the size of the egg yolks. Turn out the dough on to a lightly floured surface and knead gently into a disc. Roll out to about 4-5mm thick, then cut out biscuits with a 6cm plain or fluted cutter. Arrange on the sheets and bake for 10 minutes. While they are cooking, lightly beat the egg white. Remove the biscuits from the oven, brush lightly with egg white and sprinkle with caster sugar, then bake for four or five minutes more, until pale golden brown around the edges. Cool on the tray, then transfer to wire racks to cool completely. Cornish fairings These spicy biscuits keep well in a tin for up to a week. Makes about 18 biscuits. 100g butter, softened100g caster sugar2 tbsp golden syrup175g self-raising flour1 tsp ground ginger¼-½ tsp ground mixed spice, depending on taste¼ tsp ground cinnamon¼ tsp bicarbonate of sodaPinch of salt Heat the oven to 200C/400F/gas mark 6 and line two baking sheets with baking parchment. Melt the butter, sugar and golden syrup in a pan over a low heat. Remove from the heat and stir well. Sift the flour, ginger, mixed spice, cinnamon, bicarbonate of soda and salt together into a bowl, then tip into the melted butter mixture and gently beat to form a smooth dough. Roll the still-warm dough into balls the size of a small walnut and place 2cm apart on the prepared trays. Bake for 10 minutes, remove from the oven and carefully bash the trays on the counter to make the biscuits crackle and spread. Return to the oven for five to seven minutes, until golden brown. Cool on the trays for a few minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely. • The River Cottage Everyday iPhone App, featuring seasonal recipes, tips and videos, is now available to download from iTunes – go to rivercottage.net for details.