If you look closely at the outer walls of the Disney Concert Hall in downtown Los Angeles, you’ll notice handprints. With its swooping titanium panels and organic curves changing colour with the day, this signature structure by Frank Gehry is not only one of the most photographed buildings in the city, but visitors from all over the world want to touch it. Despite recent back surgery, at 86 Gehry remains one of the world’s most vital and prolific architects, currently working with partners on projects too numerous to name, including at least four in Los Angeles alone, the city he still calls home after 50 years. Models for current projects are among 66 on display, along with 200 drawings by Gehry and partners as part of the new show at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art  simply named Frank Gehry, which runs through 20 March. “We see Disney Hall here all the time, just one of your masterpieces,” museum president Michael Govan told the architect at the show’s opening. “That is one example that your architecture is as influential and accomplished not only as any architecture today, but as any architecture of all time.”    A scale model of a beach house. Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters   As fine a place as any to begin a look at Gehry’s career is his home in Santa Monica, a 1930s bungalow wrapped and enlarged on three sides with corrugated metal, plywood and chainlink fencing, an aesthetic that clashes with and literally recontextualizes the original structure. The first phase was completed in 1977 and it led to a decade of acceleration in his work characterized by segmentation . “Chainlink was material that was the essence of denialism,” Gehry explained. “Everybody hates chainlink but everybody uses it. When you say ‘Why are you using it, don’t you hate it?’ Yes. ‘So why did you use it to cover your tennis court you see from every room in your house?’ Well, that’s a tennis court. It’s a symbol of wealth.  so if you use chainlink as a symbol of wealth …”    A model of Gehry’s house. Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters   The episode illustrates an unorthodox approach that began with his training at USC in the 1950s through his first practice established in 1962. In Los Angeles, Gehry was able to experiment away from the factionalism and backbiting of the New York Five. Instead, he mainly fraternised with Ferus Gallery figures like Ed Moses , as well as Ken Price, Ed Ruscha and many others. “Being under the radar and separate, I loved it. You didn’t have to prove anything to anybody. You could just be yourself.” According to Govan, it’s key to what sets Gehry apart, what he calls an “aesthetic of casualness”. “It’s not that the work looks like California, but the conditions of freedom for architecture has a lot to do with how an architect could evolve with such formal freedom and innovation. It’s not clear that you could do that in another place.” After winning the Pritzker prize in 1989, a profound transformation overcame his work, due mainly to CATIA Digital Project, software originally developed for aeronautics and automakers to manipulate three-dimensional information. Gehry worked with software engineers to cater it to the demands of architecture and it has since become a standard tool of the trade. Its effect can be seen in buildings like the Guggenheim museum in Bilbao, Spain, as well as Prague’s Nationale-Nederlanden building where one tower seems to swoon into the other, earning the monikers Fred and Ginger and the Dancing House.    A scale model of the Nationale-Nederlanden building.  Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters   “I ended up giving a guy the middle finger salute in Spain because he asked me ‘What do you say to people who think your buildings are showing off?’,” Gehry confessed. “Every city in the world has built these glass boxes and they all look alike. So our big office buildings look like big office buildings in other cities. If you go to Riyadh now you’ll see big office buildings and they look like big office buildings. These cultural things don’t seem to matter.” The final gallery of the exhibition was not part of the show at the Centre Pompidou, Paris, where it originated last year. It includes current and future designs for projects like Facebook’s new warehouse-like campus, the Philadelphia Museum of Art renovation, as well as private residences and mixed-use developments like 8150 Sunset in West Hollywood, which features two towers, 11 and 15 floors, an open public space with a glass curtain designed to draw pedestrians into a retail space a few steps up from street level.    A scale model of Facebook’s West Campus building. Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters   One noticeably absent plan is that for the Los Angeles River, which Angelenos were surprised to learn last month Gehry and partners had been developing pro bono for about a year in conjunction with the city affiliated LA River Revitalization Corp. Recently released details refer to “a linear Central Park”, with vaguely fleshed out specifics on areas like downtown, Elysian Park and Long Beach, and little mention of the rest of the river’s 52-mile course to the Pacific. Detractors such as Friends of the LA River were angered to find themselves shut out of the decision-making process. “You can’t just come in big King Kong, I’m going to change the river without spending the time talking to those people. So we’ve brought in a lot of people who know how to do these kinds of things,” Gehry told the gathering, referring to partners Richard Roark of landscape architecture firm Olin, water management specialist Henk Ovink, and Geosyntec, an eco-friendly engineering and consulting firm.    A scale model of the Foundation Louis Vuitton Museum in Paris. Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/Reuters   “New York took a crappy little derelict train track and turned it into the High Line and changed New York,” he said, explaining his plan to cover the railroad tracks between downtown LA and Boyle Heights, making a public park adjacent to the arts district. “So LA city center will become the center of a circle instead of a one-sided kind of city. If we do it right, we can really make the High Line look like a little pishy thing.” With a $1bn grant from the Army Corps of Engineers for an 11-mile stretch of the river, the future of the project remains fuzzy until Gehry makes his proposal public. Even then, as he confided in an appearance at the museum last Sunday, he’s not sure what his role will be, though his mandate is unwavering: “Those of us who create things with inert materials, if there’s a job for us to do, it’s to create feelings that are uplifting and that make spaces that help people, make them feel better, make your life pleasanter.”