Nick Clegg's reputation has still not recovered from the tuition fees U-turn and Cleggmania feels like ancient history, his former director of strategy has said. Richard Reeves, formerly one of Clegg's closest aides, also predicted that the general election campaign of 2015 is likely to be uninspiring and lacking in freshness from any of the three main party leaders. Writing in the Guardian, he forecast Clegg's direction would be unapologetically pro-European and would concentrate on "steadiness and consistency rather than rhetoric and radicalism" over the next year. Those two predictions came true almost immediately as the deputy prime minister released his new year message, saying his plan was to opt for "more steady as she goes than spectacular highs and lows". Clegg also accused the Conservatives of jeopardising Britain's economic recovery by flirting with leaving the EU. He said: "In May you are going to choose who represents you in the EU. Two of the parties on offer could help lead Britain out of Europe – the surest way to throw our recovery away. And the other one won't lift a finger to help us stay in. Ukip want out. The Conservatives are flirting with exit. And Labour just don't have the courage of their convictions on this. "The Liberal Democrats are Britain's party of in. Not because we're in love with the EU, or we think it's perfect. But because being in Europe means jobs, trade and prosperity." Clegg said voters should make their voices heard now and get behind the Liberal Democrats at the European elections in May if they are serious about staying in the EU, rather than waiting for the general election. In his article, Reeves, who is now associate director of the CentreForum think-tank, said the vote of pro-Europeans could be crucial for the Liberal Democrats. He said the party has, on the face of things, the "steepest climb" to do well in 2015, but might just pull it off if they pour energy into a few key seats to deny Cameron and Miliband a victory. The Liberal Democrats may also aim to steal votes off the centre-right, as nobody can now mistake them as an adjunct of the left, he added. Reeves said there was no danger of a leadership challenge to Clegg, but signalled it could be a lacklustre battle in 2015 as the parties struggle to re-capture the energy of 2010. "Cleggmania feels like ancient history now. The weeks running up to 7 May 2015 are likely to be low on inspiration. The economy will still be weak. None of the three leaders will feel fresh. David Cameron and Ed Miliband are likely to be frustrated at their inability to break out of their geographical heartlands."