With Magical Mystery Tour getting the bells-and-whistles reissue treatment this week, here's a look back at the multifaceted and often downright bizarre impact the Beatles have made on the moving image. 1) The Beatles as Oscar-winners Let It Be was filmed in January 1969, but remained unreleased until May 1970, by which point the band had officially announced its split. The Beatles were keen to see the film buried; they had little desire to return to this testing period in their career or to air some of the more fractious moments it contains – most famously the tiff between Paul and George . And yet, ultimately, they're probably happy they did. In April 1971 the Beatles picked up their one and only Academy award, for the best original song score. After all, they are pretty good …    Reading on mobile? Watch this clip on YouTube 2) The Beatles as producers Post-split, the various Beatles  made use of Apple Films – initially set up to finance Magical Mystery Tour – for a whole host of varied projects. John experimented with Yoko. Ringo directed a T Rex concert movie. And George put together a series of more personal works including a documentary on Ravi Shankar and the forgotten film masterpiece that is Little Malcolm and His Struggle Against the Eunuchs. Practically unseen until the British Film Institute resurrected it on Blu-ray and DVD last year, this blackest of comedies made use of some considerable acting talents, most notably John Hurt and David Warner. While often laugh-out-loud hilarious – as in the corduroy discussion below – the film slowly moves into more and more disquieting territory.    Reading on mobile? Watch this clip on YouTube 3) The Beatles as actors The Beatles got in on the acting game early. A Hard Day's Night emerged in 1964, swiftly followed by Help! the following year, and then there was Magical Mystery Tour. John also attempted leading man status in Richard Lester's How I Won the War in 1967. Once the band dissolved, however, it was only Ringo who maintained an interest thanks to a range of oddball turns. He appeared opposite Peter Sellers in The Magic Christian, Marlon Brando in Candy and Mae West in Sextette. He also played the Pope for Ken Russell and, strangest of all, Frank Zappa in the weirdfest that was 200 Motels.    Reading on mobile? Watch this clip on YouTube 4) The Beatles as songwriters Thanks to a general protectiveness of their music – and the need for all four Beatles  to give their approval – only a handful of their tunes have turned up on the big screen. More likely, you'll be faced with a cover version. Or an onslaught of them if you've unwisely decided to sit through Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, Roger Stigwood's attempt at having a Saturday Night Fever-style cinematic success with the Beatles songbook. Here you'll witness such horrors as Frankie Howerd taking on Mean Mr Mustard and George Burns putting as little effort as possible into Fixing a Hole.    Reading on mobile? Watch this clip on YouTube 5) Others as the Beatles Actors and comedians impersonating the Beatles date right back to the American animated TV series of the mid-60s. Since then we've had a bit of everything: the respectful ; the irreverent ; and the downright stupid. Indeed, this scene from Walk Hard is hilarious precisely because Jack Black, Paul Rudd et al don't even seem to be trying.    Reading on mobile? Watch this clip on YouTube Last week Luke Holland took us through his favourite cinematic knockouts, prompting an eclectic range of suggestions in the thread. Here's Anthony's pick of the punches: 1) discobox – John Candy KO's a clown in Uncle Buck.  2) moelliot – Will Smith's close encounter from Independence Day. 3) secretcinema – Popeye, back in his black and white days, laying into Bluto. 4) cheekymark – Johnny Knoxville on the receiving end of the real deal in Jackass the Movie. 5) rowingrob – Considerably less real, The Incredibles.