Nigeria has one of the world's biggest populations of children but is lagging behind dramatically in immunisation. It is one of only three countries where polio is still endemic – the others are Afghanistan and Pakistan. In spite of huge efforts to reach every child, there were 108 cases last year – the year in which India managed to become polio-free.  And shockingly, fewer than half of its babies receive the routine and absolutely vital basic immunisation. Only 47% now get the DTP jabs, protecting them against diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough. In a world where immunisation has risen right up the agenda and is considered a major tool in the fight to save more children's lives, the DTP vaccination rate in Nigeria has actually dropped. Why is this? Dr David Olayemi, senior programme adviser at Save the Children in Abuja, Nigeria, says part of the story is the unforeseen and unfortunate consequence of the mammoth effort under way to eradicate polio. Speaking at the Gavi Partners Forum in Dar es Salaam, where donors, governments and NGOs working with the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation have gathered to review progress and plan for the future, Dr Olayemi explained how initiatives planned with the best of intentions had backfired. "The primary health care system in Nigeria is very weak," he said. But the polio eradication campaigns, now happening almost every month, empty the health facilities. "You need thousands of volunteers. A lot of the health workers get involved in that as monitors. A lot of them are salaried workers – but because of the incentive packages, they all go out for days and days, every month." These low-paid workers are getting extra cash for helping with the polio immunisation campaign, which is funded by a whole range of organisations from Rotary to the Gates Foundation to the Nigerian government. So the health centres are deserted and some children miss out on other immunisations that they need.  But there is another problem too, said Dr Olayemi, which one could perhaps call vaccination fatigue. The vaccinators put polio drops in the mouth of every small child they can find. Some children are immunised again and again, until the families cease to believe it does any good. And they then start refusing. Mothers are given cards to show their child has been immunised, said Dr Olayemi, but some lose them and in other cases, the vaccinators refuse to accept them. It may not help that they are paid according to how many children they reach. The vaccination strategy has to change, he says, to strengthen the primary healthcare system. The Gavi Alliance appears to think this is the way forward too – at a board meeting it agreed to get involved in the polio eradication effort, with a focus on integrating polio vaccination into the general baby vaccination programme and strengthening health systems to do that. Dr Olayemi was speaking at the launch of a Save the Children report, which calls on Gavi to step up efforts to reach the last 20% of children across the developing world who are not getting routine immunisation. There has been impressive progress in reducing child mortality , which immunisation has helped to drive, it says. But the 20% left behind are the poorest, most marginalised and hardest to reach, it says, and new strategies are needed. Vaccination services need to be part of a package of healthcare interventions within strengthened primary care centres – and also taken to the children through outreach clinics. The polio vaccination campaign is a response to what the WHO declared is a global emergency, but routine vaccination has to be a part of normal life.